docs: Add snowflake with Bytebase and GitHub (#712)
bytebase/bytebase.com: content/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github.md

This tutorial will bring you to the next level by introducing the **GitOps workflow**, where you commit the schema change script to the GitHub repository, which will in turn trigger the schema deployment pipeline in Bytebase.

You can use Bytebase free version to finish the tutorial.

## Prerequisites

Before you start this tutorial, make sure:

- You have followed our previous UI-based change tutorial [Database Change Management with Snowflake](/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake).
- You have a Snowflake account with the role `ACCOUNTADMIN`.
- You have a GitHub account.
- You have a public GitHub repository.
- You have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed locally.
- You have a [ngrok](http://ngrok.com/) account. ngrok is a reverse proxy tunnel, and in our case, we need it for a public network address in order to receive webhooks from GitHub.com. We use ngrok here for demonstration purposes. For production use, we recommend using Caddy.

![ngrok](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/ngrok.webp)

## Step 1 - Run Bytebase in docker with URL generated by ngrok

> To make local-running Bytebase visible to GitHub, we’ll pass ngrok generated URL  to [--external-url](/docs/get-started/install/external-url). If you’re running Bytebase in Docker without this parameter (as in the previous tutorial), you can stop the running Bytebase first. The data created in the last tutorial is stored under `~/.bytebase/data` by default and will be restored if the system restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make local-running Bytebase visible to GitHub, we’ll pass ngrok‘s generated URL  to [--external-url](/docs/get-started/install/external-url). If you’re running Bytebase in Docker without this parameter (as in the previous tutorial), you can stop the running Bytebase first. The data created in the last tutorial is stored under `~/.bytebase/data` by default and will be restored if the Bytebase restarts.
```

2. Choose GitHub.com and Click **Next**.

3. Follow the instructions within **STEP 2**, and in this tutorial, we will use a personal account instead of an organization account. The configuration is similar.
![sts-vs-step2](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/sts-vs-step2.webp)

4. Go to your GitHub account. Click **Settings** on the dropdown menu.
![github-settings](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-settings.webp) 

5. Click **Developer Settings** at the bottom of the left-side bar. Click **OAuth Apps**, and click **New OAuth App**.
![github-oauth-3png](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-oauth-3png.webp)

6. Fill Application name and then copy the Homepage and Authorization callback URL in Bytebase and fill them in. Click **Register application.**
![sts-vs-step2-unfilled](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/sts-vs-step2-unfilled.webp) 
![github-new-oauth](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-new-oauth.webp)

> 7. After the OAuth application is created successfully. Click **Generate a new client secret**. Copy **Client ID** and this newly generated **Client Secret** and paste them back into Bytebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. After the OAuth application is created successfully. Click **Generate a new client secret**. Copy **Client ID** and this newly generated **Client Secret**, then paste them back into Bytebase.
```

![sts-vs-step3](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/sts-vs-step3.webp)

## Step 4 - Enable GitOps workflow with Snowflake

1. Go to project `TestSnowflake`, click **Version Control**, and choose GitOps Workflow. Click **Configure version control**.
![prj-vs-gitops](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-vs-gitops.webp)
2. Choose GitHub.com - the provider you just added. It will display all the repositories you can manipulate. Choose `snowflake-test-bb-local`.
![prj-vs-step1](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-vs-step1.webp)
![prj-vs-step1-github-prj](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-vs-step1-github-prj.webp)
3. Keep the default setting, and click **Finish**.
![prj-vs-step3](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-vs-step3.webp)
![prj-vs-enabled](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-vs-enabled.webp)

## Step 5 - Change schema for Snowflake by pushing SQL schema change files to GitHub

> 1. In your GitHub repository `snowflake-test-bb-local`, create a folder `bytebase`, then create a subfolder `test`, and create an SQL file following the pattern `{{ENV_NAME}}/{{DB_NAME}}##{{VERSION}}##{{TYPE}}##{{DESCRIPTION}}.sql`. It is the default configuration for file path template setting under project version control, you can do customization if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your GitHub repository `snowflake-test-bb-local`, create a folder `bytebase`, then create a subfolder `test`, and create an SQL file following the pattern `{{ENV_NAME}}/{{DB_NAME}}##{{VERSION}}##{{TYPE}}##{{DESCRIPTION}}.sql`. It is the default configuration for file path template setting when you configure the project version control previously.
```

- `DB_DEMO_BB##202212152000#ddl#create_hello_world.sql`
- `Test` corresponds to {{ENV_NAME}}
- `DB_DEMO_BB` corresponds to {{DB_NAME}}
- `202212152000` corresponds to {{VERSION}}
- `ddl` corresponds to {{TYPE}}
- `create_hello_world corresponds` to {{DESCRIPTION}}

Paste the sql script in it.

````SQL
CREATE SCHEMA DEMO;
CREATE TABLE HELLO_WORLD
(
FIRST_NAME VARCHAR
,LAST_NAME VARCHAR
);
````
![vscode-create-table](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/vscode-create-table.webp)

2. Commit and push this file.
3. Go to Bytebase, and go into project `TestSnowflake`. You’ll find there is a new Push Event and a new issue 102 completed.
![prj-push-event02](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/prj-push-event02.webp)
4. Click issue/102 and go the issue page, you’ll see:
- The issue is created via github.com.

> - The issue is completed without manual approval because it’s on Test stage where no manual approval is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The issue is completed without manual approval because it applies the schema change to a database from the Test environment. And our Test environment is configured with no manual approval required.
```

- The SQL is exactly the one we have committed to the GitHub repository.
- The Assignee is Bytebase, because it’s automatic. If the github user you use to commit the change has the same email address found in the bytebase member list, we will use that member as the assignee.
![is-create-table-done](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/is-create-table-done.webp)
5. Go to GitHub repository, you will see besides your committed SQL, there is a .DB_DEMO_BB##LATEST.sql file. Because you have configured `Schema path template` before, Bytebase will write back the latest schema to that specified path after completing the schema change. Thus you have access to an update-to-date full schema at any time.
![github-LATEST-list](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-LATEST-list.webp)
![github-LATEST-create-table](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-LATEST-create-table.webp)

> 6. Let’s create another SQL file `DB_DEMO_BB##202212152040#ddl#add_age.sql`. Paste the SQL script in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Let’s create another SQL file `DB_DEMO_BB##202212152040#ddl#add_age.sql` to see how that latest schema file will be updated after applying a new schema change. Paste the SQL script in it.
```

````SQL
USE SCHEMA DEMO;
ALTER TABLE HELLO_WORLD ADD COLUMN AGE NUMBER;
````
![vscode-add-age](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/vscode-add-age.webp)
7. After pushing the new SQL file, go back to the Bytebase and you should find the generated issue.
![is-add-age-done](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/is-add-age-done.webp)
8. Click **view migration** and compare the diff.
![db-view-migration](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/db-view-migration.webp)
9. Go to GitHub repository and you will find the LATEST SQL has been updated to reflect the latest schema.
![github-LATEST-add-age](/static/blog/database-change-management-with-snowflake-and-github/github-LATEST-add-age.webp)

## Summary and Next

> Now you have tried out **GitOps workflow**, which will store your Snowflake schema in GitHub and trigger the change upon committing the change to the repository, to bring your Snowflake change workflow to the next level of Database DevOps - **Database as Code**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have tried out **GitOps workflow**, which will store your Snowflake schema in GitHub and trigger the change upon committing the change to the repository, to bring your Snowflake change workflow to the next level of Database DevOps - [**Database as Code**](/blog/database-as-code).

You can check out our [GitOps docs](docs/vcs-integration/overview) to learn more configuration details.
```
